This page defines the '''expense category vocabulary''' as an
indented bullet list. The ReceiptScanner extension parses it on save,
flattens it into full paths (<code>Travel/Meals</code>,
<code>Online Services/Software</code>, …), and uses it to autocomplete
the <code>expense_category</code> field on [[Form:Expense]].

Income has its own vocabulary at [[Project:Income categories]].

Edit this list with normal wiki editing to change the taxonomy. Existing
expenses keep whatever path they were saved with; see [[Help:Receipts]]
for how drift is handled.

'''Reserved characters in labels:''' <code>/</code> separates parent
from child in the rendered path, and <code>;</code> separates the
options when this list is fed to the form combobox. Don't use either
inside a label. Commas are fine ("Hotel, Lodging, and Accommodation"
stays one option). Where you'd be tempted to write <code>A/B</code> in
a single label, write "A, B, and …" instead, or split into a real
parent → child relationship.

This starter tree is derived from the FreshBooks default expense
categories, with two adjustments for a SaaS-era small business:
"Online Services" (hosting + SaaS software) and "Subscriptions, Dues, and Memberships"
are lifted out of FreshBooks' catch-all "Other Expenses" lump to
top level so they're easy to discover via autocomplete. Replace the
tree with whatever fits your accounting.

* Advertising
* Bank and Merchant Fees
* Business Insurance
* Car and Truck Expenses
** Gas
** Mileage
** Repairs
** Vehicle Insurance
** Vehicle Licensing
* Commissions
* Contractors
* Cost of Goods Sold
** Cost of Billed Expenses
** Cost of Shipping and Handling
* Depreciation
* Education and Training
** Books and Reference Materials
** Conferences
** Courses
* Employee Benefits
** Accident Insurance
** Health Insurance
** Life Insurance
* Interest
** Mortgage
** Other
* Meals and Entertainment
** Entertainment
** Restaurants and Dining
* Office Expenses
** Hardware
** Office Supplies
** Packaging
** Postage
** Printing
** Shipping and Couriers
** Software
** Stationery
* Online Services
** Hosting
** Software
** Other
* Professional Services
** Accounting
** Consulting
** Legal
* Rent or Lease
** Equipment
** Machinery
** Office Space
** Vehicles
* Repairs and Maintenance
* Subscriptions, Dues, and Memberships
* Supplies
* Taxes and Licenses
* Travel
** Airfare
** Hotel, Lodging, and Accommodation
** Meals
** Mileage
** Taxi and Parking
* Utilities
** Gas and Electrical
** Internet
** Phone
* Wages
* Other
