This wiki tracks money in and money out with the '''ReceiptScanner'''
extension. Each transaction is one of two kinds, in its own namespace:

* '''[[Special:CargoTables/Expenses|Expense:]]''' pages — money going out.
* '''[[Special:CargoTables/Income|Income:]]''' pages — money coming in.

== The model ==

Each Expense or Income page can have:

* '''0 or 1 Receipt''' — the uploaded file the parser extracted fields
  from. An invoice, a payment confirmation, a store receipt.
* '''0 or more Supporting documents''' — extra files that justify or
  contextualize the transaction (a contract, a boarding pass, a
  warranty card, a statement). Supporting documents are ''not'' parsed
  and can be linked from multiple Expense or Income pages.

A transaction with no Receipt is a '''manual entry''' (cash purchase,
recalled-from-memory expense, transfer with no document).

== Adding a transaction ==

=== From uploads (the usual flow) ===

# Go to [[Special:UploadReceipt]].
# Pick '''Expense''' or '''Income''' (the radio at the top of the page).
  All files in this upload will get that kind; you can change it per
  entry later.
# Click '''Choose files…''' and select one or more files (PDF, JPEG,
  PNG, HEIC). The button text updates to show how many you picked.
# Click '''Upload and queue'''. Each file is queued and OCR'd in the
  background — usually ready within a few seconds.
# You land on [[Special:ReceiptReview]], which auto-refreshes every
  10 seconds while there's pending work. When entries land in the
  '''Ready''' section, click '''Review in form''' on each. The form
  ([[Form:Expense]] or [[Form:Income]]) opens with the parsed fields
  pre-filled.
# Verify, correct anything the parser got wrong, and save.

'''Every parsed field is a starting point.''' You are always the
verification step — nothing is saved until you review it.

=== Manually (no receipt) ===

Open [[Form:Expense]] or [[Form:Income]] directly. Leave the receipt
file field blank.

=== From an already-uploaded file ===

If a file was uploaded to the wiki but never attached to an entry, it
shows up on [[Special:UnlinkedFiles]]. Each unlinked file has
'''Process as Expense''' / '''Process as Income''' buttons that queue
it for OCR just like a fresh upload. Users allowed to delete also see
a '''Delete file''' button for mis-uploads; it goes through
MediaWiki's standard delete confirmation, and admins can undo it via
[[Special:Undelete]].

== If you picked the wrong kind ==

On [[Special:ReceiptReview]], a Ready row has a '''Toggle type''' button
alongside ''Review in form'' / ''Reprocess'' / ''Dismiss''. Click it to
flip Expense ↔ Income; the row is reprocessed so the parser swaps
''payee'' ↔ ''payer'' and re-extracts.

== Re-running the parser ==

Reprocessing only happens '''before''' you first approve a row. On
[[Special:ReceiptReview]], a Ready row's '''Reprocess''' button (or a
Failed row's '''Retry''' button) resets it to Pending and re-runs the
parser; once it lands
back in Ready, '''Review in form''' returns you to the same entry with
fresh parsed fields.

Once an entry is saved, its wikitext fields are the source of truth, so
there is deliberately no reprocess button on a saved entry. To correct a
saved entry, edit it directly (form or wikitext). To start over from the
same receipt file, use the '''Clone''' button on the entry, which creates
a fresh row from that file.

== Categories ==

Each transaction gets one category, chosen from a per-kind vocabulary:
[[Project:Expense categories]] for expenses, [[Project:Income categories]]
for income. Categories are hierarchical paths like <code>Travel/Meals</code>
or <code>Sales/Products</code>. Roll-up reporting uses the path prefix
— a query for <code>Travel/%</code> covers every travel subcategory.

If a single purchase spans categories, split it into multiple Expense
records that reference the same Receipt file.

=== If the vocabulary changes ===

Renaming or removing a category does not rewrite existing pages — they
keep the path they were saved with. To find entries on a category that
is no longer listed on [[Project:Expense categories]] or
[[Project:Income categories]], filter [[Special:Ledger]] by that category
prefix (or run a Cargo query), then fix each entry by hand.

== Assignment ==

* '''Assignee''' is set automatically to whoever is logged in when the
  entry is first created; reassign during review by picking a different
  user from the autocomplete.
* A blank assignee means the transaction is company-wide.

== Reporting ==

[[Special:Ledger]] is the combined view across Expenses and Income:

* Filter by kind (Both / Expense / Income).
* Filter by date range — presets for ''this/last week|month|year'', plus
  ''Custom range'' for explicit dates.
* Filter by amount (min/max), category prefix, or uncategorized-only.
* Filter by assignee (exact username), payee/payer substring, or
  notes substring.
* Table with totals (expenses, income, net) above.
* '''Export CSV''' downloads the current filtered set with the date
  range pinned as absolute dates, so the file stays stable later.

== Per-user pages ==

Each user can have their own receipts summary on their User: page using
the <code><nowiki>{{User receipts}}</nowiki></code> template:

* On your own user page (e.g. <code>User:Alice</code>), just add
  <code><nowiki>{{User receipts}}</nowiki></code>. The template
  defaults the username to the page name.
* On someone else's user page, pass the name explicitly:
  <code><nowiki>{{User receipts|Alice}}</nowiki></code>.

The template renders the user's 20 most recent expenses and income
entries from Cargo, with links to the full filtered view in
[[Special:Ledger]].

This app preconfigures new user pages to transclude
<code><nowiki>{{User receipts}}</nowiki></code> on first login, via the
[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:CreateUserPage CreateUserPage]
extension. To change what new user pages contain, set
<code>$wgCreateUserPage_PageContent</code> in a settings override.

== Quick links ==

* [[Special:UploadReceipt]] — bulk upload + queue
* [[Special:ReceiptReview]] — triage Ready / Pending / Processing / Failed
* [[Special:UnlinkedFiles]] — files on the wiki not attached to any entry
* [[Special:Ledger]] — combined report + CSV (filterable by kind, date,
  amount, category, assignee)
* [[Project:Expense categories]] / [[Project:Income categories]] — taxonomy

[[Category:Help]]
